>> Steve Kinney: So
our job is to clean up this paint storm.
So we kinda talked a little bit about
the approach before I cut you all loose to
give it a shot.
Which is, we have a CSS class,
we have a transition,
we have all the basic moving pieces,
right?
The easiest thing we can do is get rid of
some of this jQuery and we'll go ahead and
we'll get our hands on the box.
I mean, I could do this part in jQuery,
I'm choosing not to,
it's fine.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll grab the class of box.
And step one that we do
here is we could just say
box.addEventListener('click').
>> Steve Kinney: And
we can say box.classList,
I'll go with a toggle.
I think, or Google, or
goggle in that case.
Yeah, are you not all familiar with
the goggle method?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Okay.
[LAUGH] We'll toggle the move class.
Right, and we won't get our own layer and
everything like that, but
it's a good start.
We will eventually get our own layer,
it's just gonna happen at the same time.
Let's go take a look.
I'm gonna do the paint flashing in
this case, so you can see It flashes.
It moves without having that
trail of green behind it, and
then it goes back down again.
You can see the paint
flash VCR is actively
getting moved to it's own layer, right?
It's going up to it's own layer, then
it's moving, then it's going back down,
cuz the transition is no longer there.
But it would be great if I didn't
have to do that simultaneously.
Let's also just do a recording real quick.
Let's see what we've got going on here,
I'm gonna turn off the paint flashing.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and you can see,
we've got the click event.
That's not right.
Fun fact that actually
didn't bite me until now is,
a lot of times you're better off if
you have clean profile in Chrome.
Or you do it in an incognito window,
because sometimes you will get some of
your Chrome extension that are also
interjecting themselves.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
we have the event listener.
>> Steve Kinney: And
it kind of moves across.
But the one thing I want you to notice
first, is remember when I showed you all
of those intermediate frames in
there when we did the jQuery one?
They're gone, right,
cuz yeah, we added a class.
The compositor thread is all about moving,
we're basically sliding that layer along,
and then pushing it back down again.
But we don't actually need to manually
move it on the main thread anymore.
So we have nothing happening in here,
which is super cool.
We could get a little bit better,
like for more complicated animations or
when there is a lot going on the page,
you could stutter as you're like I have to
repaint to get it up to it's own layer.
Right, that's gonna block everything,
it's gonna block other things
going on on that thread.
So we can say, hey, when you're not busy,
if you could move that up to its
own thread, that'd be great.
So let's go ahead and
we'll implement that.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we've got the click listener,
we're gonna add a few more events.
We'll say
box.addEventListener('mouseenter').
I think somebody asked earlier,
the difference between mouseenter and
mousemove.
Mousemove is effectively every
time you're hovering over it,
mouseenter is like when the mouse
enters the bounds of that element.
RIght, and leave will be when it leaves.
Cuz we don't wanna do this all the time,
we just wanna do it the first time it
enters, and the first time wanna to do
something different when it leaves.
Cool, and so we'll say
box.style.willChange = 'transform'.
And we're gonna be good citizens here, and
we're gonna say when the mouse leaves.
>> Steve Kinney: mouseleave.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll set it back to
auto in this case, auto is the default.
You could also set it to an empty string.
We'll probably do that maybe later,
but I'm just going to set it to auto.
Cool, and then when the transition ends,
that's also a good time to put it down.
So you could say,
box.addEventListener('transitionend').
It's really cool that
the CSS transitions and
animations will trigger JavaScript events.
So you know when that transition or
that animation has completed.
>> Steve Kinney: Excuse
me as I learn how to type.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, cool, and
we'll do the same thing.
>> Steve Kinney: And this time,
I'm gonna turn back on paint flashing.
Can you see hovering over it
moved it to its own layer.
When my mouse entered and left, it moved.
When I click,
it's just pure GPU animation there.
That final one was we put
on the transition and
that we wanted to be put back down again.
But there's really nothing that
happens on the main thread
as we're doing the animation.
Right, which means no other layouts or
style recalculations or JavaScript or
anything else going on is going to
stop that buttery smooth animation.
Cool, let's actually look
at that in the layers.
And if you don't have
the layers tab up here, again,
you can just go to these three dots,
go to More Tools and find Layers, and
then it will be there.
>> Steve Kinney: And
then I like to give myself just
a little bit of rotation there,
treat myself to that.
>> Steve Kinney: Go ahead you can see,
it's up on its own layer,
and it's back down.
It's up, it's down, it's up, it's down,
I could literally do that all day,
I will respect your time and not.
[LAUGH] But I will never cease
to be amused and amazed by that.
All right, cool, so we did it.
Very useful for one thing are about to,
the browser will handle what deserves
its own layer and what doesn't.
But you're allowed to give it
recommendations on listen,
I wrote the JavaScript here.
I know what's about to happen here,
why don't you get ready for it?
And you can actually
save a lot in that case.
And yeah,
cuz if you're animations are janky,
why even have them?
>> Speaker 2: Can I ask
a question?
>> Steve Kinney: Of course.
>> Speaker 2: If you have a really heavy
element page,
would it be easier to just, on enter
transform that element, or one of the
elements, to it's layer, leave it there?
Instead of having to go on and
off all the time [CROSSTALK] just
kind of drag your mouse around.
>> Steve Kinney: If it's
gonna be a permanent thing like,
yeah, right, doing stuff.
But if you think about
most things if it is like,
let's say you're swiping things away.
Let's say it's like a Trello, right,
or something along those lines.
Yeah, you can promote it,
but you could move it again.
But as the user continues to use that app,
and you're making more and more and
more layers, you run the cost.
The main thread and the compositor
thread effectively share memory space,
which you can run out of, right?
So stuff like a sidebar,
the general rule should be,
put everything back when you're done
unless you have a really good reason.
So a sidebar that they're gonna interact
with all the time, or a menu, or
something along those lines
might be an exception, maybe.
But it should be used like
incredibly judiciously.
Because yeah, if it gets out of control
and the user spends a lot of time on
the page, eventually you're gonna
create more and more layers.
It's gonna become increasingly problematic